EVERYONE TO THE
OCTOBER TWENTY THIRD TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING I'M CANDICE
PRIOR, CHAIRPERSON OF THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS A
NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION APPLICANTS WILL
HAVE FIVE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
MAKE THEIR PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR
REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING THE
PUBLIC COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE THREE EIGHT ONE
SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO
SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
WE WILL ALLOW ON APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL FIVE
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE BOARD
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN APPEAL
TO BE GRANTED FINALLY, ANY
QUALIFIED PARTY WHO IS
AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION OF THE
BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT DECISION
TO THE WASHTENAW COUNTY CIRCUIT
COURT ON A TIMELY BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL CANDICE BREYER I
AM HERE TO GRANT I AM HERE.
DAVE DEVOTEE IS ALREADY HERE
PENDULOUS KOUTSKY JULIE
WETHERBEE HERE.
DREW DENNISON HERE.
MIKE DANIEL HERE.
DHARMA HERE.
CHRISTINA LUSSAC HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE QUICKLY THAT THIS
SECOND ITEM LISTED ON OUR
AGENDA A TWENTY FOUR ZERO ZERO
THREE FOUR FIFTEEN HUNDRED
JACKSON AVENUE HAS BEEN
WITHDRAWN AT THE REQUEST OF THE
PETITIONER.
SO IF ANYONE IS HERE REGARDING
THAT PETITION, WE WON'T BE
DISCUSSING IT TONIGHT.
IT'S BEEN WITHDRAWN.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
QUESTIONS ON THE AGENDA NOT TO
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA?
THANK YOU, TED.
SUPPORT FROM JULIE IN FAVOR SAY
I OPPOSED MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
SEPTEMBER TWENTY FIFTH TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS
COMMENTS OR ACTIONS ON THOSE
MINUTES NOT TO HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES?
>> THANK YOU TED.
SUPPORT ANDREW ALL IN FAVOR SAY
I OPPOSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
FIRST WE HAVE PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE ZERO FIVE ONE SIX EAST
LIBERTY STREET.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN BAIRD.
I'M THE ZONING COORDINATOR FOR
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE FIRST PETITION IS FIVE SIX
AND EAST LIBERTY STREET MAKALU
REPRESENTING THE BUSINESS IS
SEEKING A SEVEN FOOT SEVEN INCH
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
TWENTY FOUR TO D ONE DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS TO INSTALL A
WALL SIGN AT TWENTY SEVEN FEET
SEVEN INCHES ABOVE THE MAXIMUM
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT OF TWENTY
FEET.
THE APPLICANTS ARE ALSO SEEKING
VARIANTS OF SEVENTEEN SQUARE
FEET FROM THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE
WALL SINE SQUARE FOOTAGE OF ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY SQUARE FEET
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY FOUR
POINT FIVE PERMANENT SIGNS
ALLOWS TWO SQUARE FEET ASSIGN
AREA PER LINEAR FOOT
OF BUILDING FRONTAGE.
THE BUILDING IS 70 FEET AND
WITH THE PROPERTY IS OWNED D
ONE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
THE SOUTH SIDE OF EAST LIBERTY
STREET AND IS IN THE DOWNTOWN
DISTRICT ACCORDING TO THE CITY
ASSESSOR'S RECORDS THE BUILDING
WAS CONSTRUCTED IN NINETEEN
TWENTY.
THE BUILDING IS NOW OCCUPIED BY
NECO DON TREADER BOOKSHOP
ANTIQUE RESTAURANT TABLE FIVE
POINT TWENTY FOUR DASH TWO D1
D2 AND SEE WHEN OUR DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS REQUIRES ALL
SIGNS TO BE IN THE LOWEST 20
FEET OF THE BUILDING WHEN
INSTALLED ON A BUILDING LESS
THAN FORTY FIVE FEET IN TOTAL
HEIGHT THE SUBJECT BUILDING IS
APPROXIMATELY THREE STORIES
OVER AND OVERALL HEIGHT THE
APPLICANT REQUESTS A VARIANCE
TO INSTALL THE SUBJECT SIGN AT
A MAXIMUM OF TWENTY SEVEN FEET
SEVEN INCHES INSTEAD OF THE
REQUIRED TWENTY FEET.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST SLIDE SHOWS THE ZONING
MAP AND LOCATION MAP IN THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN
GREEN IN THE CENTER THE SCREEN
NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IN A ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO.
>> NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE CONCEPTUAL DESIGN
SHOWING THE PROPOSED SITE
NEKTAR AS YOU SEE AND THE LOWER
OR THE UPPER LEFT CORNER AND
OTHER DIAGRAMS OF THE SIGN AND
ITS PROPOSED LOCATION IN
RELATIVE RELATIONSHIP TO THE
BUILDING WALL.
THIS IS ANOTHER CONCEPTUAL
PHOTO SHOWING THE PROPOSED
SIGN.
AS YOU CAN SEE IT'S 16 FEET
SEVEN INCHES IN LENGTH OR
HEIGHT AND WHICH WOULD EXCEED
THE ALLOWABLE TWENTY FEET.
THAT'S WHY THE SEVEN FOOT SEVEN
VARIANCE IS BEING REQUESTED
ALONG WITH THE AREA THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE AREA TO ALLOW FOR THE
TO AUDIENCE AS WELL AS FOR THIS
WHOLE OVERALL SIGN PACKAGE.
>> THESE ARE SOME RENDERINGS
SHOWING WHAT THE SIGNS WILL
LOOK LIKE AT NIGHT ALONG EAST
LIBERTY STREET, SOME MORE
RENDERINGS OF THE PROPOSED
SIGNS IN THE THOROUGHFARE AND
HOW THEY ARE IN RELATIONSHIP.
>> THE STREET VIEW AND A NIGHT
OF CONCEPTUAL DRAWING OF THE
STREET LOOKING EAST ALONG EAST
EAST LIBERTY.
>> THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK
OUT MY INSPECTION AND THEY SHOW
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS OF THE
PROPERTY
AND THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
CHRISTINE, JOHN.
SO THERE IN THE PHOTO THERE'S
THREE HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS I
THINK YOU MAY MENTION TOO.
BUT THE APPLICATION IS FOR THIS
ONE ALSO AT THE QUARTER SUN
THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE AN
AWNING SIGN ON THAT LEFT AWNING
.
SO I SEE A HORIZONTAL ELEMENT
THAT'S NOT THERE NOW.
BUT SO THAT'S AND THAT'S THIS
IS A THIS IS A CONCEPTUAL
PHOTO.
SO WE JUST DISREGARD THAT.
WELL, DOESN'T HAVE SIGNAGE ON
IT.
THEY'RE ALLOWED TO HAVE AN
AWNING THAT DOESN'T HAVE
SIGNAGE, OK, THAT DOES NOT HAVE
SIGNAGE.
SO THE OVERALL PACKAGE WILL
HAVE ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SEVEN SQUARE FEET FOR BETWEEN
THE THREE SIGNS AND THERE ARE
ABOUT 140 OK SO IT'D BE
SEVENTEEN SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE
OVER THE ALLOWABLE 140 AND THEN
THE SEVEN FOOT SEVEN
EXPERIENCED FOR THE HEIGHT FOR
THAT HEIGHT HERE.
>> THANK YOU JOHN.
TELL ME ABOUT THE PINBALL PIZZA
BECAUSE UNDER A CRITERION B AT
THE BOTTOM OF PAGE TWO THEY'RE
SAYING THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT
BEING QUOTE DOMINATED BY
PINBALL PEETS AND ONE OF THE
PHOTOS HERE THAT PINBALL PETE
SIGN IS PRETTY BIG SO I GUESS
YOU DON'T HAVE A SHOT.
>> SO THE FUTURE NETTO COMPARED
TO PINBALL'S PETE AND THEN HOW
DID PINBALL'S PETE GET SO BIG
PINBALL PETE DOESN'T EXIST
RIGHT NOW.
>> THAT'S JUST A CONCEPTUAL
FUTURE RENDERING.
>> OH OK.
SO IT'S NO IT'S NOT PART OF THE
IT'S NOT PART OF THIS QUESTION
I GUESS.
ALL RIGHT.
IT DOESN'T EXIST YET.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
YEAH.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
UH SO I KNOW YOU JUST SAW THAT
YEAH.
PINBALL PLEASE.
UH SO I KNOW YOU JUST SAW THAT
IT'S NOT PART OF THIS REQUEST
PINBALL PLEASE.
BUT BECAUSE MAYBE THIS IS A
IT'S NOT PART OF THIS REQUEST
QUESTION FOR THE PETITIONER I'M
BUT BECAUSE MAYBE THIS IS A
GOING TO STEP FIRST BECAUSE
QUESTION FOR THE PETITIONER I'M
THEY TALK ABOUT THE CONTEXT
GOING TO STEP FIRST BECAUSE
BEING SOME OF THESE OTHER SIGNS
THEY TALK ABOUT THE CONTEXT
INCLUDING I THINK MICHIGAN
BEING SOME OF THESE OTHER SIGNS
THEATER CHANGING THE MARQUEE
INCLUDING I THINK MICHIGAN
THERE.
THEATER CHANGING THE MARQUEE
DO DOES THE CITY HAVE ANY
THERE.
KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT THE PLANS ARE
DO DOES THE CITY HAVE ANY
FOR THE PINBALL PIZZA AND LIKE
KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT THE PLANS ARE
WILL IT BE WITHIN THE CODE OR
FOR THE PINBALL PIZZA AND LIKE
THEY'RE GOING TO DEFER THAT
WILL IT BE WITHIN THE CODE OR
QUESTION OF THE OK?
THEY'RE GOING TO DEFER THAT
>> I MEAN IT'S DIFFICULT FOR ME
QUESTION OF THE OK?
TO SPECULATE THE PLANS CHANGE
>> I MEAN IT'S DIFFICULT FOR ME
ALL THE TIME THOUGH.
TO SPECULATE THE PLANS CHANGE
I KIND OF WANT TO FOCUS ON WHAT
ALL THE TIME THOUGH.
WE HAVE BEFORE US TONIGHT.
I KIND OF WANT TO FOCUS ON WHAT
DAVE DAVE.
WE HAVE BEFORE US TONIGHT.
SO IN MY PACKET THAT I PICKED
DAVE DAVE.
UP EARLIER TODAY THERE WAS A
SO IN MY PACKET THAT I PICKED
SIGN A KNIGHTS A VERTICAL
UP EARLIER TODAY THERE WAS A
KNIGHTS SIGN DOES THAT EXIST
SIGN A KNIGHTS A VERTICAL
NOW?
KNIGHTS SIGN DOES THAT EXIST
KNIGHTS RESTAURANT.
NOW?
YEAH.
KNIGHTS RESTAURANT.
AND THAT VERTICAL SIGN IS THERE
YEAH.
I I I'M I'M NOT SURE I'D I KNOW
AND THAT VERTICAL SIGN IS THERE
THERE'S A NIGHT SIGN BUT I'M
I I I'M I'M NOT SURE I'D I KNOW
NOT SURE IF THAT THAT ONE IS IN
THERE'S A NIGHT SIGN BUT I'M
THERE.
NOT SURE IF THAT THAT ONE IS IN
I'M NOT SURE I'M NOT.
THERE.
DOES IT MATTER.
I'M NOT SURE I'M NOT.
>> WELL IT'S NOT PART OF THIS
DOES IT MATTER.
PACKAGE CHANGES THE CONTEXT
>> WELL IT'S NOT PART OF THIS
THAT THEY'RE COMING IN AND
PACKAGE CHANGES THE CONTEXT
ASKING I MEAN I KNOW THE
THAT THEY'RE COMING IN AND
PINBALL PITS ONE IS NOT THERE
ASKING I MEAN I KNOW THE
BUT I I DON'T REMEMBER THE
PINBALL PITS ONE IS NOT THERE
KNIGHTS ONE BEING THERE OR NOT.
BUT I I DON'T REMEMBER THE
I DON'T I DON'T BELIEVE KNIGHTS
KNIGHTS ONE BEING THERE OR NOT.
IS THERE.
I DON'T I DON'T BELIEVE KNIGHTS
I THINK THEY JUST HAVE A
IS THERE.
HORSESHOE DESIGNS.
I THINK THEY JUST HAVE A
I DON'T KNOW THEY DON'T HAVE
HORSESHOE DESIGNS.
THAT ONE.
I DON'T KNOW THEY DON'T HAVE
OKAY SO ANYTHING IN THE FUTURE
THAT ONE.
AND THAT WOULD HAVE TO COMPLY
OKAY SO ANYTHING IN THE FUTURE
WITH THE AS WELL AS DENHA SO
AND THAT WOULD HAVE TO COMPLY
BACK TO THIS APPLICATION.
WITH THE AS WELL AS DENHA SO
SO THE IMAGE THAT YOU HAVE
BACK TO THIS APPLICATION.
SHOWN ON THE SCREEN I SEE
SO THE IMAGE THAT YOU HAVE
NEKTAR YEAH.
SHOWN ON THE SCREEN I SEE
KNOW HAVE TO BRING ASKED THE
NEKTAR YEAH.
APPLICANT THAT HE IN THE
KNOW HAVE TO BRING ASKED THE
APPLICATION HE SAID THAT WHEN I
APPLICANT THAT HE IN THE
SAT DOWN WITH HIM THAT THAT'S
APPLICATION HE SAID THAT WHEN I
NOT GOING TO BE PART OF THE
SAT DOWN WITH HIM THAT THAT'S
ANSWER.
NOT GOING TO BE PART OF THE
>> WE'LL GET CLARIFICATION.
ANSWER.
YEP.
>> WE'LL GET CLARIFICATION.
OK THANK YOU.
YEP.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
OK THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT IF THE APPLICANT IS
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN.
HERE PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
ALL RIGHT IF THE APPLICANT IS
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
HERE PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
MINUTES.
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MINUTES.
MARK SHILLUE OWNER MR. KNEE A
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
LADY COMPANY DESIGNED AND IN
MARK SHILLUE OWNER MR. KNEE A
BEHALF OF ME I AMANDA GOOD
LADY COMPANY DESIGNED AND IN
WORKS PR FOR ME SO I'M GOING TO
BEHALF OF ME I AMANDA GOOD
LET HER READ THROUGH THIS.
WORKS PR FOR ME SO I'M GOING TO
SHE'LL DO A MUCH BETTER JOB
LET HER READ THROUGH THIS.
THAN I DID SO JUST TO GIVE A
SHE'LL DO A MUCH BETTER JOB
LITTLE BACKGROUND IN REGARDS TO
THAN I DID SO JUST TO GIVE A
MARK SHELU AND MR. NEON
LIGHTING HE'S CREATED MANY
OF THE ICONIC SIGNS IN ANN
ARBOR LIKE FLEETWOOD DINER, THE
PIZZA HOUSE STANHILL, THE
GARAGE BAR ZOLA AND ZIGOMANIS
ROAD HOUSE JUST TO NAME A FEW.
THESE ARE HISTORIC SIGNS.
HE'S ALSO ON THE MICHIGAN AND
THE RENOVATION OF THE STATE
THEATER AND WHEN I SAY IT
ICONIC I REALLY FEEL THAT THESE
ARE SIGNS THAT WE COULDN'T
IMAGINE OUR TOWN REALLY WITHOUT
SIGNS THAT HAVE MEMORIES FOR
MANY PEOPLE AND SIGNS THAT ARE
VERY MUCH A PART OF OUR VISUAL
ICONOGRAPHY IN THE AFTERMATH
OF COVID AND EMOTIONAL ECONOMIC
IMPACTS OF OUR COMMUNITIES,
BUSINESSES AND CITIZENS AND
EVEN A TIME OF UNCERTAINTY THAT
WE'RE EXPERIENCING NOW AND
DIVISION THIS VARIANCE OFFERS
THE UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO
HIGHLIGHT OUR RESILIENCE AND
HELPFULNESS MOVING FORWARD TO
CELEBRATE THE DIVERSITY OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND TO REMIND US
OF POSSIBILITIES.
IT REMINDS US TO LOOK UP NEON
SIGNS AND MARQUEES LIKE THE
PROPOSED NETTO STATE THEATER,
MICHIGAN THEATER, OUR BRIGHTLY
LIT AND ANIMATE BIG CITIES AND
SMALL TOWNS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
IN OUR TOWNS AND OUR TRULY THE
ART GALLERY OF THE PEOPLE AND
WE ARE ASKING FOR THE APPROVAL
OF THIS VARIANCE IN SUPPORT
OF A VISIONARY PLAN THE
PROPOSED MADE POSSIBLE BY
APPROVAL OF THIS VARIANCE
REQUEST WILL JOIN THE STATE
THEATER, THE NEWLY UPGRADED
MICHIGAN THEATER AND THE SOON
TO BE UNVEILED HISTORIC PINBALL
PETE'S ARCADE SIGN OVER FORTY
YEARS IN BUSINESS HOPEFULLY
CREATING ALTHOUGH THIS IS THE
FUTURE VISION AND INSPIRING NEW
CULTURAL CORRIDOR ALONG LIBERTY
STREET IT'S A WAY TO BRING
TOGETHER PEOPLE AND BUSINESSES,
STUDENTS AND COMMUNITY YOUNG
AND OLD.
SO THE REQUESTED VARIANCE IS A
CRITICAL PIECE OF AN EXCITING
VISIONARY PLAN ON LIBERTY
STREET, THE NEW ENTERTAINMENT
CORRIDOR PERHAPS AND IT'S MEANT
TO ILLUMINATE THE BLOCK AND IN
DOING SO SHOWCASE AND SUPPORT
THE STREETS.
MANY RESTAURANTS, THEATERS,
SHOPS, BUSINESSES AND IN THE
CASE OF THE ENEKO SPECIFIC THE
LGBTQ PLUS COMMUNITY AND THE
DIVERSITY OF OUR TOWN WHICH IS
REALLY ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
MAKES THIS A GREAT PLACE.
I'LL ADD ONE COMMENT THREE
WEEKS AGO WE WERE APPROVED TO
CHANGE THE THEATER MARQUEE IN
THE MICHIGAN THEATER SO THE TWO
WINGS ON EACH SIDE ARE GOING TO
BE VIDEO BOARDS THAT WE HAVE TO
GO BEFORE JOHN FOR THE BOARD
OF APPEALS WILL BE BACK FOR
THAT OF THOSE TWO WINGS IN THE
FRONT WING OF THE EXISTING IT
WILL BE A BOARD TO BUT IT WILL
REPLICATE EXACTLY WHAT'S THERE
NOW.
SO I'LL GIVE THAT OLD ORIGINAL
FEELING OF THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
BUT THE TWO WINGS PER ORDINANCE
HAS A CERTAIN TIMING AND COLOR
BRIGHTNESS SO THAT'S IN THE
WORKS AS WELL AS A PART OF THIS
CORRIDOR ENTERTAINMENT THEATER
DISTRICT AND THE PINBALL PIZZA
HAS NOT BEEN DESIGNED THAT WAS
JUST A ROUGH DRAFT OF WHAT
WE'RE MAY DO OR WHATEVER.
SO HE'S GOT A LOT OF LEADING
YOUR FEET TO DEAL WITH SQUARE
FOOTAGE WISE WE COULD IT'S ONE
TWO FOR ONE.
SO WE'RE GOING TO DO SOMETHING
REAL CLASSY AS EXTREME REALLY
ICONIC FOR PINBALL PIZZAS.
WELL, SO ON HOPEFULLY TONIGHT
IT'S ALREADY BROUGHT THE POINT
UP.
IT WAS NOT IN THE PACKET BUT
ALSO THE NIGHT FAMILY ARE
INTERESTED IN CHANGING URSINE
TO KIND OF CHANGE THIS WHOLE
CORRIDOR.
SO THAT'S WHAT THE FUTURISTIC
PLANS ABOVE AND BEYOND THE NEXT
SIDE IS.
SO WE WANT TO LIGHT THE WHOLE
BLOCK UP AND MAKE A LOT
OF PEOPLE COME DOWN THERE AND
MAKE IT FUN SO ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ME?
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS.
OK, THANKS.
SO CAN YOU CLARIFY IN THE POST
IS THERE SIGNAGE THAT WILL BE
IN THIS NEW HORIZONTAL ELEMENT
ABOVE THE NEXT ENTRY?
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A LITTLE
CONFLICTING WHAT THEY'RE DOING.
THIS IS PRETTY MUCH GOING TO BE
ALL CONNECTED AND ONE OF THE
THINGS IS, YOU KNOW, THE KIDS
THAT GO TO IT'S GOING TO BE A
SOLID CANOPY THAT GOES ACROSS.
IT'S GOING TO BE ILLUMINATED
WITH SO DURING THE WINTER
MONTHS THAT'S WHAT REALLY THAT
IS FOR AND ELIMINATING THE TWO
EYESORES MY OPINION OF THE
CANOPY'S BUT WE WANTED TO PUT
IN ONE OF THE JOHN SLIDES.
IT SHOWS WHERE ADDING THEIR
NAMES IN WE MIGHT ACTUALLY ADD
THE TWO IN THE WINDOWS AS WELL
TO GIVE THEM SOME RECOGNITION.
SO YOU KNOW, THESE THINGS ARE
PROBABLY 30, 20 YEARS OLD AND
THEY DON'T REALLY FIT WITHIN
THE WHOLE BLEND OF THAT AREA SO
SO WELL ANECDOTES WHEN I LOOK
AT THIS IMAGE HERE, I DON'T SEE
KNECHTEL HERE BUT IN ANOTHER
IMAGE I DO UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE WILL BE CONTINUITY THAT
WILL BE ONE CONTINUOUS US FOR
THAT OR A TRAITOR DON IN THE
RESTAURANT THAT WILL BE ONE
CONTINUOUS CANOPY THAT LIKE I
MENTIONED ILLUMINATED AND HE
DID OK BUT WILL NETTO BE IN
THIS BAND ON THE LEFT SIDE THEY
ALSO HAVE THAT WILL BE
CONTINUOUS SO EVERYBODY GOING
IN THEY WON'T WORRY ABOUT SNOW
OR RAIN OR WHATEVER GOING THERE
AND THERE WILL BE LETTERS
APPLIED IN THAT SECTION.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE ASKING FOR
JUST SIMPLE LETTERS PROPOSE
THAT WE DON'T JUST GO THERE BUT
FOR THE FOR THE RESTAURANT IN
THE BOOKSTORE WE KNOW WE NEED
TO DO SOMETHING FOR THEM AS
WELL.
>> CAN YOU ALSO SPEAK TO WHY
MORE VERTICALITY IS NEEDED FOR
THE NECTAR?
WELL, THE WHOLE AREA DOWNTOWN
WHERE YOU GO WITH THE STATE
OF UTAH, THE MICHIGAN THEATER
AND UP AND COMING PINBALL PIZZA
WOULD PROBABLY BE A YEAR AND A
HALF AWAY THIS WHOLE AREA
THAT'S WHERE THE ENTERTAINMENT
ENHANCEMENT VALUE WILL BRING BY
MAKING IT VERTICAL SO IT WILL
EVERYBODY WILL HAVE WILL BE
COMPETING TO GET TO EACH OTHER.
BUT YOU KNOW, IN A REALLY
POSITIVE WAY IF I HAVE SEVERAL
QUESTIONS, SIR, LET ME PREFACE
BY SAYING THAT ONE OF MY SONS
WHO NOW LIVES IN DOWNTOWN
CHICAGO WHEN HE USED TO COME TO
IT OVER LIKE DANCING AT THE
LACTO AND SO HE HAS A LOT
OF GOOD MEMORIES BUT THIS IS
REALLY A REQUEST FOR A BIG SIGN
THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO ABOUT
THE DANCING IN THE NECK.
SO THESE ARE MY QUESTIONS.
EXPLAIN TO ME WHY THE NEED FOR
A BIGGER SIGN IS AN X?
WE HAVE CRITERIA WE HAVE TO
MEET WE LOOK AT TORITO ALWAYS
RIGIDLY FOLLOW THEM BUT I JUST
NEED SOME HELP IN THIS CASE.
SO WHY IS NOT HAVING A BIGGER
SIGN?
WHY WOULD THAT IMPOSE AN
EXCEPTIONAL PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY?
I MEAN EVERY BUSINESS WANTS
SOME BIG SIGN WHY IN YOUR CASE
?
>> WELL, IN THIS CASE, YOU
KNOW, CHANGING THE WHOLE
ENVIRONMENT BETWEEN THOMPSON
AND STATE STREET NUMBER ONE
NUMBER TWO, THE VISIBILITY
ASPECT NOBODY CAN REALLY YOU
KNOW, THEY HAVE A FRONT
HORIZONTAL LINE ON THE FASCIA
THERE.
AND BESIDES THAT, IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT TO LOCATE THE
BUSINESS AND WHY NOT DO
SOMETHING THAT FITS IN WITH THE
STATE IN THE MICHIGAN THEATER
THIS IS ALL THE BIG PICTURE
THING WHICH THIS REALLY FITS
INTO THE THE WHOLE CONCEPT
CHANGE THE REERECT THAT WHOLE
CORRIDOR.
>> MY SECOND QUESTION YOU
ASSERT THAT THE NECK TO SIGN IN
ORDER WOULD BE DOMINATED BY
PINBALL PEETS BUT YOU HEARD
FROM SCHABIR TODAY THAT IN FACT
THE PINBALL'S PIT SIDE DOESN'T
EXIST YET.
SO THAT REALLY ISN'T TRUE.
NO, IT DOES.
THIS IS ALL CONCEPTUAL.
IT'S EVEN PROBABLY GOING TO BE
MOVED FROM WHERE IT IS NOW TO
THE CENTER OF THE CANOPY FOR
THE GOAL FOR A HAIR SALON.
SO THAT WILL GO IT WILL BE
MOVING CLOSER TO THE NECO SO
YOU'LL HAVE THE PINBALL PIT
WHICH UNDER ORDINANCE WE'RE
ALLOWED TO EVEN MAKE MUCH
BIGGER THAN THE NECTARINE SIDE
BUT WE DON'T WANT TO DO THAT.
WE WANT THEM ALL COMPATIBLE
TOGETHER.
SO IT GIVES US ENTERTAINMENT
FEELING OF THAT WHOLE CORRIDOR
AND I REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND
YOUR COLLEAGUES COMMENT IN THE
LAST PART OF YOUR APPLICATION
THAT GIVING YOU THE SIGN WOULD
HIGHLIGHT OUR RESILIENCE AND
HOPEFULNESS MOVING FORWARD.
I JUST DO IT.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN A SENSE TO ME?
WELL, THIS IS JUST A REQUEST
FOR A BIGGER SIGN.
EVERY BUSINESS WANTS A BIG SIGN
WHAT DOES IT HAVE TO DO WITH
MOVING THE COMMUNITY FORWARD
AND HIGHLIGHTING OUR
RESILIENCE?
>> I THINK THAT HE IS TRYING TO
COMMUNICATE THAT TO CELEBRATE
THIS AREA, TO CELEBRATE
SPECIFICALLY, YOU KNOW, THIS
COMMUNITY AND THE NESTO AND
EVERYTHING THE POSSIBILITY
OF OF THIS PLAN, THE
POSSIBILITY OF THAT SPACE AFTER
WHAT HAVE BEEN REALLY
SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES TO OUR
BUSINESSES AND TO ALL OF US.
I THINK THAT THE COMMUNITY THAT
LIGHT IS ACTUALLY A WAY TO DO
THAT LIGHT IN TOWNS AND
COMMUNITIES BIG AND SMALL IS
YOU KNOW, IT'S A METHOD
OF REALLY BRINGING PEOPLE
TOGETHER, CELEBRATING
COMMUNITIES
AND YOU KNOW,
POSITIVE MOVES TOWARDS THE
FUTURE CONCEPTUALLY THAT'S LIKE
HISTORICALLY SIGNAGE DOES THAT
AND I THINK CREATING THAT SPACE
WITH LIGHT IS ONE OF THE WAYS
THAT AS A COMMUNITY WE DO MOVE
FORWARD AND WE HAVE RESILIENCE
IN ALL THAT WE HAVE EXPERIENCED
OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT'S AN
UNDERSTATEMENT REALLY.
I DON'T HAVE ANY MORE
QUESTIONS.
DAVE.
SO I'M LOOKING AT THIS AND ALL
THE PROPOSED ASPECTS OF A NEW
CONCEPTUAL DESIGN AND I'M
LOOKING AT IT IS LIKE A TOE IN
THE DOOR BASICALLY DO A TOTALLY
NEW CONCEPT FOR ALL OF LIBERTY
STREET FROM THOMPSON TO STEVE.
BUT I'M NOT SOLD.
I MEAN THIS THAT'S A BIG THAT
CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT LIKE
WHAT YOU WANT TO DO
CONCEPTUALLY FOR THAT DISTRICT
IS A BIG ASK AND YOU'RE IT'S
LIKE YOU'RE TRYING TO KNOWS
YOUR WAY IN WITH WHICH SIGN TO
BEGIN WITH AND THEN OTHER SIGNS
DOWN THE ROAD.
BUT LET ME FINISH THE I'D LIKE
TO SEE IF THERE'S GOING TO BE
SOME THING THAT HAS SUCH A BIG
IMPACT ON THE ENTIRE DESIGN
OF THIS CORRIDOR OR
CONCEPTUALLY I'D LIKE TO SEE
BUY IN FROM THE MERCHANTS
ASSOCIATION THE SEATS MERCHANTS
.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THEM BUY IN AND
BE SUPPORTING US AND COMING
BEFORE US AND SAY THIS YOU
KNOW, FOR THE HEALTH OF OUR
DISTRICT.
YES.
OUR WE WE REALLY NEED SOMETHING
LIKE THIS AND I'D LIKE IT'S
ALMOST A BROADER DISCUSSION
THAN JUST FOR OUR BOARD HERE.
RIGHT.
AND I I'M I'M NOT SEEING THE
CASE, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT YOU'RE
ASKING FOR SEVEN AND A HALF
FEET IN INCREASED HEIGHT AND
I'M ASKING MYSELF WHY CAN'T IT
FIT WITHIN A TWENTY FEET
MAXIMUM HEIGHT BECAUSE YOU
STILL HAVE VERTICAL EVERYWHERE
YOU COULD WORK WITH TWENTY FEET
IS PRETTY HIGH.
IT'S UNTIL I'M SOLD AND I
REALLY NEED MORE SUPPORT ON THE
WHOLE CONCEPT FROM ALL THE
CONSTITUENTS THAT ARE INVOLVED
IN THAT PART OF THE COMMUNITY
AND THAT'S WHERE THAT'S WHERE
I'M APPROACHING IT FROM AND I'M
WONDERING WHY NOT WHY DIDN'T
YOU BRING IN THE STREET
MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION AND SAY
OK, WE'RE BROUGHT IN ON THIS
CONCEPT?
WE DID MEET WITH ANGELA PRIOR
TO THIS MEETING AND SHE WAS
SUPPOSED TO ATTEND AND SHE
COULDN'T ATTEND AND SHE GAVE A
LETTER OF APPROVAL OF WHAT
WE'RE DOING FOR THE THIS
PARTICULAR AREA.
SO SHE'S 100 PERCENT IN THE
BACK OF WHAT WE'RE WE'RE DOING
NOW.
THE PINBALL PIECE IS COMING
LATER.
OK, BUT THE SIGN THAT HE CAN
HAVE IS THE HE CAN HAVE A MUCH
BIGGER SIGN EVEN THOUGH WE
WON'T BE MAKE A HUGE SIGN TO
USE UP ONE HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET.
THAT'S A HUGE SIGN.
SO WE'RE GOING TO KEEP IT IN IN
SCALE WITH THE KNECHTEL.
SO YOU SEE PINBALL IN NEXT DOOR
AND HOPEFULLY KNIGHTS IN AND
THE CHANGES THAT WE'RE DOING TO
THE MICHIGAN THEATER AS WELL.
DID YOU PROVIDE US WITH THAT
LETTER FROM THE STATE?
I BELIEVE WE HAVE IT.
I COULD CHECK BUT I'M SORRY
THAT IT'S IN THE PACKAGE.
YOU DON'T HAVE IT OK, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> DID YOU LOOK AT OPTIONS THAT
FIT WITHIN CODE LIKE AT ANY
POINT DID YOU LIKE DO YOU HAVE
A DRAWING THAT SHOWS THIS IS
WHAT A SIGN WOULD LOOK LIKE
THAT MEETS THE 20 FOOT MAXIMUM
HEIGHT THAT MEETS THE THE
MAXIMUM AREA JUST FOR
COMPARISON BECAUSE I CAN SAY IN
THE PAST WE HAVE SEEN
APPLICATIONS OR SIGNAGE WHERE
PEOPLE ARE ASKING FOR FOR
EXCEPTIONS TO THE RULE AND
SOMETIMES SEEING WHAT DOES MEET
THE STANDARDS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT OH YEAH, THAT
WOULD BE OUT OF SCALE IN THIS
CONTEXT AND IT KIND OF SUPPORTS
THEIR THEIR REQUEST AND IN THIS
CASE IT'S HARD FOR ME TO SAY
WHETHER THE VARIANCE IS REALLY
NEEDED OR NOT BECAUSE I HAVE NO
CONTEXT OF WHAT A CONFORMING
SIGN MIGHT LOOK LIKE YOU NO I
DO NOT HAVE A DRAWING WITH THE
WITH THE ORDINANCE REQUIRES OK
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE HERE FROM
THE PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION, NOW'S YOUR
CHANCE.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
STATE YOUR NAME AND SIGN IT.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S DO IT.
>> HELLO.
HI I'M SCOTT.
I AM THE OWNER OF THE NACDL
EVEN OVERVOTED TED SHIRTS SUCH
TED SO I'M HERE TO TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE ABOUT
WHAT WE JUST TALKED ABOUT JUST
FOR ARGUMENT'S SAKE OR
WHATEVER.
I GET A LITTLE NERVOUS ENERGY
POLICY TO PARDON ME THE SIGN
THIS DESIGN I HAD DRAWN IN
THOUSAND EIGHT.
SO IT'S BEEN THIS IS HOW LONG
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON ACTUALLY
IT WAS PART OF A PROJECT WHEN
WE REMODELED AND PUT A LOT
OF EFFORT AND MONEY INTO THE
BUILDING TO ADD A STAIRCASE TO
GO DOWN THE STAIRS HERE YOU
GUYS HAVE EVER BEEN TO THE NEXT
LEVEL.
YOU SEE NECTARINE BALLROOM USED
TO BE TO GO UP THE STAIRS
ACROSS THE DANCE FLOOR, DOWN
THE STAIRS TO GET TO THE BACK
OF THE BUILDING INTO THE
BASEMENT.
MY OFFICE, THE RED ROOM.
SO WE PUT A LOT OF EFFORT INTO
IT AND REMODELED THE BASEMENT,
REMODELED THE PUT A STAIRCASE
IN SO YOU PEOPLE COULD GET INTO
THE BASEMENT FROM THE FRONT
OF THE BUILDING AND THIS WAS
PART OF IT.
I JUST COULDN'T AFFORD.
IT WAS A BIG PROJECT SO I
TALKED TO THE BUILDING OWNER
AND HE INTRODUCED ME TO WORK
AND I LIKE LOOK, I'D REALLY
LIKE TO GET THAT SIGN BILL.
ONE OF THE SHINING THINGS THAT
I DO I'VE WORKED THERE MY
HISTORY AT THAT PLACE I STARTED
THERE IN EIGHTY NINE WHEN IT
WAS A NECTARINE BALLROOM.
SO I'VE BEEN THERE A LONG TIME
,A VERY GOOD INTIMATE
KNOWLEDGE OF THAT BLOCK.
I ALSO MANAGED TO PROPERTY FOR
THE BUILDING OWNER THAT WELL
PIZZA'S GOING TO BE GOING INTO
SO THE NEXT DESIGN IS PART
OF MY VISION IS SO THAT PEOPLE
CAN ACTUALLY FIND THE NECO FROM
MAIN STREET FROM STATE STREET
BECAUSE IT'S OUR CURRENT SITE
IS TERRIBLE.
IT'S AGAINST THE BUILDING EVEN
COMING OUT OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURE.
PEOPLE WOULD CALL US AND SAY WE
CAN'T FIND YOU.
SO THAT'S REALLY WHAT THIS
ORIGINAL SIGN CAME FROM THIS
LIKE PEOPLE WOULD COME OFF
OF THE HIGHWAY GOING TO MAIN
STREET, THEY'D COME OUT AND
THEY JUST CAN'T FIND US.
SO THAT WAS WHERE THE ORIGINAL
SIGN CAME FROM.
AND THEN AS THE THE THE IDEA
DEVELOPED IT BECAME THINGS LIKE
HEY, THIS IS A REALLY ICONIC
PLACE.
THIS HAS BEEN A PLACE FOR
PEOPLE CONGREGATED FOR FIFTY
YEARS, HAD A LGBTQ PLUS NINE
FOR FOUR YEARS.
THEY JUST CELEBRATE OUR FOURTH
ANNIVERSARY HAVING A GAY NIGHT
IN ANN ARBOR.
IT'S ALSO WHERE I MET MY
HUSBAND STILL SO FAR.
SO IT'S IT HAS A SPECIAL PLACE
IN MY HEART AND SO I WOULD I'M
ASKING TO HAVE BE LARGER THAN
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE BECAUSE
OF THE SIZE AND THE SCALE
OF THE BUILDING ITSELF TO THE
CURRENT SIGN THAT WE WANT BUT
WE DON'T HAVE THAT SMALLER
THING.
I'M SORRY.
TIME'S UP 10 MORE SECONDS.
OK,
SO THAT'S IT'S NOTHING
NOTHING BUT THAT'S EXACTLY WHO
I AM.
THAT'S WHAT I WANT.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I'M ASKING
FOR AND I'M ALWAYS AVAILABLE
FOR QUESTIONS AFTERWARDS.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS SO HELLO.
YOU DID STATE YOUR NAME AND
PLEASE SIGN IN AS WELL.
OH SORRY I GOT EVERYTHING
ADDRESS DO I HAVE TO DO IS
ADDRESS JUST YOUR NAME IS DON'T
FORGET YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBER BIRTH DATE
.
OK MY NAME IS TED ARNOLD I'M
THE OWNER OF PINBALL.
PETE'S BEEN HERE IN ANN ARBOR
FOR COMING UP ON THIRTY YEARS
AND PRIOR TO THAT I WAS
ACTUALLY FROM EAST LANSING BUT
I ALWAYS USED TO I USED TO COME
TO TOWN AND GO TO THE USED
RECORD STORES AND THE ARCADES
BECAUSE THAT WAS JUST WHAT I
DID AND IT LED ME TO THIS TOWN
AND AT ONE POINT I HAD THREE
SMALL ARCADES HERE THAT I
CONDENSED INTO THE LOWER LEVEL
OF THE GALLERY ON SOUTH
UNIVERSITY.
I'M HERE TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR
THE METRO BECAUSE I'M ALSO A
SCIENCE GUY AS EVIDENCED BY THE
FACT THAT I HAVE THE CAMPUS
THEATER MARQUEE SIGN FROM CSU
THAT I'M GOING TO BE
INCORPORATING INTO MY NEW
ARCADE INSIDE THE ARCADE SO
THAT'LL BE KIND OF COOL TO SEE
THAT AGAIN IT'S BEEN GONE FOR
TWENTY FIVE YEARS NOW BUT MY
POINT ON THIS IS IT'S
IT'S
AMAZING WE HAD MET BEFORE THIS
MEETING AT NIGHT AND WHILE WE
WERE THERE JUST HAVING A SNACK
BEFORE THE MEETING I SAW THREE
PEOPLE COME UP AND DO PICTURES
OF EITHER THE STATE THEATER
MARQUEE OR THE MICHIGAN THEATER
MARQUEE AND IT'S OBVIOUS THAT
THAT'S AN ATTRACTION TO THE
AREA RIGHT NOW.
IT'S LIKE ONCE YOU GET PAST THE
MICHIGAN THEATER THE SIGNS JUST
KIND BLEND IN.
I THINK THAT'S GOING VERTICAL
IS A VERY GOOD IDEA.
IT'LL TIE THE SIGNAGE TOGETHER.
THAT'S HOW I'M PLANNING MY
SIGNAGE.
I'VE ALREADY DECIDED AFTER
TALKING WITH MARK THAT PUTTING
OUR SIGN DOWN ON THE CORNER
OF LIBERTY AND THOMPSON WOULD
INTERFERE WITH THE SIGN POLL
THAT COMES OUT AND IT WOULD
JUST LOOK CROWDED.
SO WE WANT TO MOVE IT DOWN.
THERE'S FIVE ALUMINUM PANELS
ABOVE THE AWNING THAT WE'RE
GOING TO GO UP WITH SOMETHING
THERE THAT WOULD FIT THE
STREETSCAPE OF THE STATE DENHA
WHICH IS BIG AND PROMINENT AND
THE MICHIGAN THIRTY SECONDS
PARDON ME.
THIRTY SECONDS.
OH SO THAT'S MY PLAN.
I DON'T I DON'T WANT TO OFFEND
ANYONE.
I JUST I THINK IT'S A GOOD IDEA
AND I'D REALLY LIKE TO I KNOW
SCOTT'S ALREADY HAD THE SIGN
MADE AND I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO
SEE IT GET INSTALLED AND GRAB
HIM A VARIANCE IF POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU.
WE MADE A PROTOTYPE.
YES.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK?
YEAH.
MY NAME IS RUSS COLLINS AND I'M
THE MARQUEE GUY.
>> I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
THEATER AND I THINK THE THE
ISSUE THAT YOU'RE THAT THEY'RE
TRYING TO BALANCE IN TERMS
OF THAT BUILDING SPACE BETWEEN
BETWEEN THOMPSON AND MAINARD IS
THE THE FRONTAGE OF THE OF THE
PINBALL PIZZA WILL ALLOW BY
CODE A VERY BIG SIGN.
AND SO IF THE NEXT CAN ONLY
CONFORM TO WHAT THE CODE WILL
ALLOW, IT WILL CREATE A MUCH
DIMINISHED SIGN.
SO THE ESTHETIC BALANCE
OF THOSE TWO SIDES WOULD BE
DISTORTED.
NOW OBVIOUSLY THEY'RE WILLING
TO WORK TOGETHER SO THAT SO
THAT THERE'S AN ESTHETIC UNITY
TO THAT THAT ESTHETIC UNITY
ALSO GOES TO THE STATE AND
MICHIGAN THEATER.
THIS IS AN ENTERTAINMENT
CORRIDOR AND THOSE MARQUEES THE
NEKTAR MARQUEE, THE FUTURE
PINBALL, PETE'S MARQUEE,
WHATEVER IT LOOKS LIKE THE
MICHIGAN THEATER MARQUEE IN THE
STATE THEATER MARQUEE ARE
CRITICAL TO THE EXCITEMENT AND
THE SAFETY PERCEPTION
OF LIBERTY STREET WHEN YOU TURN
OFF THE MICHIGAN AND STATE
THEATER MARQUEES YOU HAVE A
DARK AND DINGY STREET WHEN
THOSE LIGHTS ARE LIT IT IS
EXCITING.
IT IS INTERESTING AND
ATTRACTIVE AND THAT INTEREST
AND ATTRACTION CAN BE EXTENDED
DOWN LIBERTY STREET AS IT
SHOULD BECAUSE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES
LIKE THE MICHIGAN AND THE STATE
TO CREATE THAT EXCITEMENT
BEYOND THAT LIMIT OF THOSE
HISTORIC SIGNS.
SO I SPEAK TO THIS AS SOMEONE
DEEPLY INTERESTED IN HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
I TALK TO THIS AS SOMEONE
DEEPLY INVEST IT IN THAT PART
OF THE COMMUNITY AND FEEL THAT
IF THE NEXT SIGN IS NOT ALLOWED
TO TO DO WHAT THEY SUGGEST THAT
YOU ARE PUTTING A BURDEN ON
THAT BUSINESS BECAUSE OF THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE OF THE
HISTORIC SIGNS THAT ARE THERE
WITH THE STATE AND MICHIGAN AND
THE CODE DENHA MIX OF THE TWO
ADJACENT BUILDINGS THAT WILL
WILL HAVE THAT FUTURE SIGN.
SO THE LOOK AND EXCITE OF THE
STREET WILL BE ENHANCED BY BY A
VARIANCE FOR THE NEXT SIGN TO
CREATE AN ESTHETIC UNITY OR AN
ESTHETIC CONNECTION BETWEEN
THOSE ENTERTAINMENT SPACES AND
THE SERVICES THAT THEY PROVIDE
TO THE COMMUNITY TO VERY
DIFFERENT BUT VERY IMPORTANT
CLIENTELE THAT COME DOWNTOWN
AND MAKE AN ARBOR'S URBAN
DOWNTOWN UNIQUE AND WONDERFUL
PLACE THAT IF IT IS DIMINISHED
WILL BE A NEGATIVE DYNAMIC.
THAT'S ALL I'VE GOT TO SAY.
THANK YOU TO ANYONE ELSE HERE
WHO WISHES TO SEE IF THERE'S
ANYONE WHO IS ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE ON THE WEBLINK AND
STAFF WILL CALL ON YOU.
I AM NOT SEEING ANY CALLERS
JUST FOR THE OTHER PETITIONS
THIS EVENING.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANKS JOHN.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
CHRISTINA.
SO STOP THINKING THIS THROUGH.
BUT I GREAT POINTS MADE FROM
ALL OF THE PRESENTERS.
I UNDERSTAND HOW THE SIGNAGE
WILL ENHANCE THE BLOCK.
I GET ALL THOSE ASPECTS OF THE
THE GOALS HERE FOR THIS FOR
THIS VARIANCE.
BUT I DO THINK THAT AN OPTION
AND NOT I HAVEN'T HEARD THE
SELLING POINT AND WHY THE EXTRA
SEVEN FEET FOR THE SEVEN FOOT
SEVEN VARIANTS SHOULD BE
ALLOWED?
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT GAINS
YOU I I FEEL LIKE THERE'S AN
OPTION TO LOOK THAT DESIGN AND
AND SEE IF IT DOES WORK AND IF
IT DOESN'T COME BACK WITH THE
REASONS WHY YOU CAN'T MEET
CODE AND YES.
SO THAT'S WHERE I'M AT RIGHT
NOW.
I'M JUST NOT SOLD ON THAT EXTRA
SEVEN FOOT VARIANCE BUT I
UNDERSTAND THE NEED FOR THE
COHESIVENESS OF THE OF THE
DESIGN ACROSS THE BLOCK.
I GET ALL THAT BUT I JUST THINK
THAT NEEDS TO BE A LITTLE BIT
MORE EVALUATED WITH CERTAINTY
SO THAT WE UNDERSTAND IT'S BEEN
LOOKED AT AND EVALUATED AND AND
THE BEST OPTION IS PUT FORWARD
THINKS I'M JUST GOING TO SAY
QUICKLY I 100 PERCENT AGREE
WITH YOU, CHRISTINA.
I DON'T THINK I COULD HAVE SAID
IT AS ELOQUENTLY AS YOU DID.
I'M NOT OPPOSED TO THE IDEA
OF THIS.
I THINK THERE IS A VERY
COMPELLING REASON TO TO CREATE
COHESIVENESS ON THIS ON THIS
BLOCK IN THIS AREA AND CREATE
THIS SORT OF ENTERTAINMENT
DISTRICT THAT YOU'RE ALL
DISCUSSING.
BUT AGAIN, I JUST NEED TO SEE
SOME SOME HARD NUMBERS, SOME
ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS MAYBE IF
THERE'S MEASUREMENTS AVAILABLE
FOR THE EXISTING MYSHKIN
THEATER SIGN THE STATE THEATER
SIGN HOW HIGH THOSE SIGNS ARE
JUST FOR SOME COMPARISON TO
UNDERSTAND HOW ALL OF THE
PIECES FIT TOGETHER WITH A
LITTLE BIT MORE DATA MAKE GOOD
POINTS.
I THINK FOR ME JUST KNOWING
THIS BLOCK PRETTY WELL I MEAN
THE MICHIGAN THEATER SIGNS
HUGE.
THE STATE THEATER SIGNS YOU IT
SOUNDS LIKE THE PINBALL WITHOUT
COMING TO US IS GOING TO BE
VERY LARGE.
SO TO ME I CAN VISUALIZE THIS
SEVEN FEET SEVEN INCHES SHORTER
AND IT'S TO ME WOULD LOOK
WEIRD.
I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR THIS
BECAUSE I JUST THINK IT'S COOL.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I'M DOING.
I THINK IT FITS THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS IS AN ENTERTAINMENT
DISTRICT.
THIS IS NOT A YOU KNOW,
SOMEONE'S APARTMENT ACROSS THE
STREET AND I THINK IT'S GOING
TO BE THAT GIANT MICHIGAN
THEATER SIGN RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET.
I DON'T THINK IT'S OUT OF PLACE
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR IT.
>> JULIE YEAH.
SO I I I KIND OF GET SIDES BUT
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IF I HAD
TO SAY WHAT DOES THE NECK LOOK
LIKE RIGHT NOW I WOULD SAY
THERE WAS A BIG NEON SIGN
BECAUSE IN MY HEAD THAT THERE
IS LIKE A BIG SIGN BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT IT SHOULD HAVE IN
SOME WAYS AND IT DOES HAVE A
VERY SMALL FRONTAGE WHICH I
THINK IS REALLY WHAT'S SETTING
THIS OFF.
IF IT WERE IF YOU DID SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE INTERIOR THEN
THE SIGN WOULD MAKE MORE SENSE.
BUT IT DOES HAVE A VERY SMALL
FRONTAGE SO I ACTUALLY CAN SEE
WHY YOU WOULD NEED A BIGGER
SIGN AND SEVEN FEET IS REALLY
NOT HUGE RELATIVE TO A SORT
OF BIG SIGN ON A BUILDING.
YOU KNOW, I THINK LIKE A TOE
SIGN DOWN THE STREET THEY HAVE
A FAIRLY LARGE SIGN ON THE
BUILDING.
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY MICHIGAN
THEATER AND STATE THEATER IT
MAKES SENSE TO ME WHERE THIS
WOULD FIT IN BUT I DO ACTUALLY
YOU KNOW, I DO UNDERSTAND I'D
LIKE TO SEE SOMETHING OTHER
THAN KIND OF THEORETICAL WHAT
THIS BRINGS IN TERMS OF LIFE
AND FEELING AND THAT MAKES IT A
LITTLE HARDER FOR US TO KIND
OF MAKE STATEMENTS ABOUT IT
BECAUSE THAT'S NOT REALLY WHAT
WE'RE HERE FOR.
BUT IT DOES MAKE SENSE TO ME.
SO I'M STILL KIND OF WRESTLING
WITH THIS A LITTLE I REALIZE
I'M TALKING TO YEAH.
SO THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE NICTA
WHICH HAS PLAYED AN IMPORTANT
ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY.
THIS IS ABOUT A BUSINESS THAT
WANTS A LARGER SON AND MR.
ARTLE SAID THAT HE'S A SIDE GUY
BUT IN FACT THAT PUTS HIM IN A
GROUP WITH EVERY OTHER BUSINESS
OWNER.
THEY ALWAYS WANT A LARGE A
VARIANCE BLUNTLY IS PERMISSION
TO DO SOMETHING THAT WOULD
OTHERWISE BE ILLEGAL AND THE
BURDEN IS ON THE APPLICANT TO
MEET THE CRITERIA WE HAVE AWAY.
I DON'T THINK LOOKING AT THE
FIVE CRITERIA WE HAVE THAT HAS
EXCEPTIONAL PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES.
WE'VE HAD SIGNS COME IN FRONT
OF US WHERE PEOPLE COULDN'T SEE
A SIGN FROM A CERTAIN SIDE
OF THE STREET OR THEY WEREN'T
ALLOWED TO HAVE ONE BECAUSE ALL
THE SIGNAGE SQUARE FOOTAGE HAVE
BEEN OCCUPIED BY OTHER
LEASEHOLD TENANTS IN THE
BUILDING.
THEY OBVIOUSLY NEED A SIGN BUT
THIS IS SIMPLY A QUESTION
OF WANTING A LARGER SIGN.
SECOND, I'M BOTHERED BY THE
ASSERTION THAT IT WOULD BE
DOMINATED BY PINBALL PETE'S
PINBALL PIZZA'S SPECULATIVE.
IT DOESN'T EXIST NOW THIS IS A
LITTLE FACTUAL DISTORTION.
I DON'T LIKE IT IF PINBALL
PIZZA ENDS UP HAVING A BIG SIGN
THE APPLE COME FORWARD AND ASK
FOR A BIGGER SIGN IN THE
FUTURE.
>> THIS ISN'T THE END.
YOU CAN ALWAYS COME BACK NEXT
YEAR SO THIS IS ALSO A PURELY
SELF-IMPOSED HARDSHIP.
THEY HAVE A SIGN NOW THEY
SIMPLY WANT A BIGGER ONE.
OK, I GET THAT BUT THAT'S NOT
ENOUGH TO MEET OUR CRITERIA AND
CERTAINLY THIS IS NOT CLOSE TO
MEETING THE LAST CRITERIA IS
THIS THE WITHOUT THIS WILL THEY
NOT BE ABLE TO MAKE GOOD USE
OF THE BUILDING?
OF COURSE THAT'S INSANE.
THE DOCTOR HAS BEEN AROUND A
LONG TIME.
IT'S WELL KNOWN PARTICULARLY
AMONG THE LGBT COMMUNITY THAT I
DO AGREE THAT THIS WHERE IT IS
A LITTLE DIFFICULT FINDING A
PLACE TO PARK BUT IN ARBOR'S
INFAMOUS FOR FINDING A PLACE TO
PARK I CAN PARK ANYWHERE
BECAUSE I'VE BEEN HERE FOR
DECADES BUT IT'S TOUGH.
BUT PEOPLE WHO TRAVEL FROM
DETROIT AND WANT TO COME HERE
IF THEY'VE COME THIS FAR
THEY'RE GOING TO WORK TO GET TO
THE NEXT BORDER.
I JUST DON'T THINK IT MEETS ANY
OTHER CRITERIA AND THAT'S THAT
I REALLY DID ENJOY SCOTT HEADS
AND RUSS'S STATEMENTS THEY'RE
HEARTFELT AND EVEN MARK AND HIS
COLLEAGUE AMANDA I THINK
THEY'RE ALL HEARTFELT
STATEMENTS BUT THEY JUST DON'T
MEET OUR CRITERIA AND THEY CAN
COME BACK LATER.
SO I HAVE TO VOTE NO ON THIS
AND THAT'S NOT A DIFFICULT
QUESTION I'M GOING TO BE
SUPPORTING US AND I THINK PART
OF THE STRUGGLE THAT YOU'RE
SEEING AT THE TABLE AND EVEN
THE STRUGGLE I HAD IN MY OWN
MIND AS HE FIRST STARTED
PRESENTING THIS IS THAT WE DO
HAVE THIS NARROW SET
OF CRITERIA THAT YOU'VE HEARD
MENTIONED A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
TIMES AND A PROJECT LIKE THIS
CAN BE SOMEWHAT DIFFICULT TO
ASSESS WHICH I THINK SOME
PEOPLE ALSO ADDRESSED BECAUSE
WE DON'T SEE THE COMPARISON OR
THE EVEN THE EFFORT TO LIKE
CODE ALL THAT SAID, I BELIEVE
IN ARTISTIC VISION AND THE
COHESIVENESS OF THIS DISTRICT
AND I THINK THE POINT IS WELL
MADE ABOUT THE EXISTING CONTEXT
AND HOW IT IS ICONIC AND IT IS
A DRAW FOR PEOPLE TO COME COME
DOWN TO AND THAT THIS WANTS TO
BE PART OF THAT LARGER FABRIC.
>> AND SO TO ME I'M KIND
OF ASKING LIKE WHAT BETTER GOOD
IS SERVED FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND
FOR THAT DISTRICT AND I DON'T
WANT TO TRIP OVER OURSELVES
DENYING THIS BECAUSE I DO THINK
IT'S GOING TO BE A NET POSITIVE
.
DAVE, AS I'M LOOKING AT THIS,
I'M ASKING MYSELF SOME
QUESTIONS AND I WANT TO ASK OUR
STAFF, JOHN, A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS.
IS THIS CONSIDERED A PROJECTING
SIGN?
YES.
AND ACCORDING TO THE TABLE IT
COULD BE THE MAXIMUM FOR A
PROJECT INSIDE IS THIRTY FEET
HIGHER.
THIRTY FEET HIGH.
I'M LOOKING AT THIS TABLE HERE
FOR C ONE A ARE DISTRICT
PERMANENT SIGNS MAXIMUM THIRTY
FEET BUT NO HIGHER THAN THE TOP
OF THE BUILDING.
SO IS THAT THE DETERMINATION
OF WHAT THEY'RE ASKING FOR?
DOESN'T THAT COME WITHIN
CODE OR IS THAT HEIGHT
CALCULATION BASED ON THE FRONT
PAGE OF THE BUSINESS.
OH WELL BECAUSE IT SEEMS TO ME
IF THAT'S THE CASE WELL IT'S
EITHER IT'S DIFFICULT, IT'S ALL
SIGN AND IT'S A PROJECT INSIDE
BOTH PROJECTED SIDES BY THE
WAY, THEY'VE DESIGNED IT IS
PROJECTING OUT FROM THE
BUILDING.
SO I'M LOOKING AT IT IS KIND
OF MEETING OUR CODE AND I'M
INCLINED TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT
.
WELL, IF IT MEETS CODE UNDER
ANOTHER DEFINITION, THEY DON'T
EVEN NEED TO BE HERE.
THEY STILL MIGHT FOR THE AREA
THEY WOULD BE FOR FOR THE AREA
THEY'VE MADE IT FOR THE SEVEN
FEET.
WELL, NOT VERY THEORY ASKING
FOR WHAT IS IT AS IT DEFINES IT
AS DEFINED.
SO THIS IS PROJECTING SCIENCE
DEFINES A SIGN SUCH AS A BLADE
LINE.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE WOULD
CONSIDER THIS A BLADE SIGN OR
NOT BUT THAT IS ATTACHED TO AND
PROJECTS FROM A BUILDING
GENERALLY PERPENDICULAR TO THE
BUILDING WHILE PROJECTING SIDES
ARE NOT INCLUDED ALL SIGNS AND
SIGNS ON IN YOUR CANOPY SO
THAT'S OPEN TO INTERPRETATION
PARTICULARLY HELPFUL.
WELL IT'S DIFFICULT TO SAY THAT
THERE'S A BLADE SIGN WAS
DIFFICULT TO SAY.
IT'S NOT PROJECTING.
IT'S CLEARLY PROJECTING SIGN BY
ANY COMMON AREA DEFINITION
OF THAT WORD.
I AGREE WITH DAVE.
I DO THIS LIKE THAT.
AND SPEAKING OF WHICH IS
POSSIBLE BUT PROJECTING SIGN IS
ABOUT THIRTY FEET SO IT'S
WITHIN THAT I'M NOT THAT INSEAM
THE WELL IN I'M GOING TO VOTE
IN FAVOR OF IT.
>> I SEE IT AS MEETING OUR
CODE EXCEPT FOR THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE YOU'RE ASKING FOR A
SEVENTEEN SQUARE FEET ABOVE THE
HUNDRED FORTY SQUARE FEET AND
IF THAT'S NECESSARY TO
ACCOMMODATE SOME HORIZONTAL
FRONTAGE OR SIGNAGE FOR THE
DAWN TREADER AND FOR T.K YOU
KNOW I SEE THAT AS NECESSARY
AND NOT TOO MUCH DIFFERENT.
I'D MISSED LAST MEETING BUT TWO
MEETINGS AGO WE MADE AN
EXCEPTION FOR SIGNAGE FOR A
BUSINESS OVER ITSELF INDUSTRIAL
AND STADIUM BOULEVARD AND I I
COULD I DON'T SEE ANY REASON TO
NOT GRANT THEM THE DIFFERENCE
IN THE SQUARE FOOTAGE FROM ONE
HUNDRED FORTY TO ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY SEVEN AND YOU KNOW I SEE
THIS AS MEETING OUR IN TERMS
OF THE PROJECTING SIGN IS
MEETING OUR CODE SO I'M GOING
TO VOTE FOR THIS.
SO DAVE, I THINK YOU MAY HAVE
JUST CONVINCED ME THAT IT IS
KIND OF DIFFICULT WAS OF YOU I
LOOK UP BLADE SIDE IT'S ALWAYS
LIKE ONE SIDE.
YEAH.
AND THIS IS A SERIES OF FIVE.
SO IT'S AN INTERPRETATION AND I
THINK IT CAN FIT BOTH
CATEGORIES.
THAT'S WHERE IT'S SOMETHING
MAYBE STAP WE NEED TO LOOK AT
IS CLEARING UP AT THE MOMENT
BUT I CAN SEE BOTH YEAH THAT I
MEAN THE BLADE IS ALWAYS LIKE
ONE BOX AND NOT FIVE SO ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION SO IF WE SEE
IT AS A BLADE SIGN AND IT'S
JUST KIND OF IT'S APPROVED THE
VARIANCE.
YEAH A THEATER MANAGER CONSIDER
THAT A BLADE
IT'S VERY GRAY BUT
I'M READY TO MAKE A MOTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE READY DE THANK
YOU.
IN ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A SEVEN FOOT SEVEN INCH
VARIANCE IF NEEDED FROM TABLE
FIVE TWENTY FOUR DASH TO D ONE
DISTRICT PERMANENT SIGNS TO
INSTALL A WALL SIGN AND I WOULD
CHARACTERIZE THAT AS A PROJECT
I'LL SIGN TWENTY SEVEN FEET
SEVEN INCHES ABOVE GRADE THE
MAXIMUM WALL FINE HEIGHT FOR
THE PROPERTY IS TWENTY FEET
ALTHOUGH BY MY READING I WOULD
SAY THE MAXIMUM PROJECTING SIGN
HEIGHT FOR THE PROPERTY IS
THIRTY FEET.
THE BOARD ALSO GRANTS A
SEVENTEEN SQUARE FOOT VARIANCE
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY
FOUR POINT FIVE PERMANENT SIGNS
TO ALLOW ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
SEVEN SQUARE FEET OF SIGNAGE
FOR THE THREE TENANT SPACES.
THE SIGNS ARE TO BE INSTALLED
FOR THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION WITH SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DHARMA I VOTE YES TUD
NO DHARMA YES JULIE YES MIKE
YES DAVE PARVATI YES CHRISTINA
YES DREW YES THE REQUEST IS
GRANTED MOVING ON TO PETITION.
OH WAIT A MINUTE I LOST MY
AGENDA HERE FOR JENNY
.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE FIVE ONE TWO ZERO SEVEN
ROOSEVELT AVENUE JOHN ALL JAMES
SMILEY PROPERTY OWNER IS
SEEKING VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH THREE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONS.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED ARE SEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT AND REQUIRES A MINIMUM
AREA OF EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AND A SIDE YARD
STEP BACK A TWELVE
FEET.
THE SUBJECT PARCEL IS SIX
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED TWENTY
SIX SQUARE FEET AREA.
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING TO
CONSTRUCT A TWO STOREY SIX
BEDROOM RENTAL HOUSE THAT WILL
REQUIRE A ONE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR SQUARE
FOOT AREA VARIANCE AND A SEVEN
FOOT VARIANCE FROM THE SIDE
PLOT LINE.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF ROOSEVELT
AVENUE BETWEEN CHURCH STREET
AND SOUTH FOREST AVENUE IN THE
NORTH BERN'S PARK NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE EXISTING RESIDENCE WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN 1910 AND IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND AND
TEN SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPERTY OWNERS ARE
PROPOSING A TWO STOREY SIX
BEDROOM FOUR BATHROOM HOME THE
EXISTING NONCONFORMING PARCEL,
THE OWNERS HAVE STATED THE
EXISTING FOUR BEDROOM RENTAL
WILL REMAIN BUT THE DETACHED
GARAGE THE REAR OF THE PROPERTY
WILL BE DEMOLISHED.
THE PROPOSED NEW RESIDENTS WILL
BE LOCATED FIVE FEET FROM THE
EASTERN SIDE PLOT LINE AND WILL
REQUIRE A SEVEN FOOT VARIANCE
FROM THAT REQUIRED SIDE YARDS
UP AT ACCORDING TO THE
ASSESSOR'S OFFICE THE PARCELS
COMBINED PRIOR TO NINETEEN
SIXTY FOUR AS THEIR RECORDS DID
NOT REFLECT THE COMBINATION
FROM THAT YEAR OF PRESENT AND
THE RECORDS ARE NOT PREDATE
NINETEEN SIXTY FOUR SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT
THREE SUBSECTION D
NONPERFORMING LOT REQUIRES THE
PASS WILL BE REVIEWED AS ONE
PARCEL AND WHICH STATES THAT
WHERE TO BUDDY BUDDY AND LOTS
ARE UNDER THE SAME OWNERSHIP
AND WHERE ONE OR BOTH OF THOSE
SLOTS ARE NOT CONFORMING THE
LOT SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS A
SINGLE NOT CONFORMING SUBJECT
TO ALL THE PROVISIONS OF THE
SECTION.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST MAP IS THE LOCATION MAP
SHOWING THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING RENTAL
HOUSE ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY AND THE GARAGE TO THE
REAR WHICH IS BEING PROPOSED TO
BE DEMOLISHED.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
I WILL POINT YOU KNOW, THE
ORIGINAL THE SURVEY SUBMITTED
YOU SEE THAT OLD LINES AND THE
FOUR CORNERS WHERE THE IRON
PINS WERE FOUND AND THIS IS TWO
ORIGINAL PLAN AND LOTS LOTS
SIXTEEN SEVENTEEN.
BUT IT IS ONE PARCEL THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE SURVEY'S
EXISTING ON YOUR LEFT AND
PROPOSED ON YOUR RIGHT YOU SEE
IN THE BACK THE GARAGE IS TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND THE PROPOSED NEW
SIX BEDROOM HOME ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE LOT AND REQUESTED
VARIANCES OF THE SEVEN FEET
BECAUSE THE SIDE STEP BACK IS
TWELVE FOR THE R FOR C DISTRICT
WHEN YOU HAVE MORE THAN ONE
SINGLE FAMILY HOME THIS IS
GOING TO HAVE TO AND SO THERE
NEED IN THAT SEVEN FOOT SIDE
YARD SET THAT VARIANCE ON THAT
SIDE.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS THAT WERE SUBMITTED.
YOU SEE THE PROPOSED HOME THE
WEST AND THE UPPER LEFT CORNER
THE SOUTH SIDE LOOKING DIRECTLY
FROM ROOSEVELT AND THEN THE
EAST ELEVATION AND THE REAR
ELEVATION ON THE NORTH SIDE.
THESE ARE THE FLOOR PLANS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED FOR THE SIX
BEDROOM HOME BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT AND THE FIRST AND
SECOND FLOOR.
>> THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT MY INSPECTION OF THE
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE
EXISTING HOME AND THE DETACHED
GARAGE IN THE BACK.
THIS IS THE PARKING LOT AREA
FOR THE EXISTING HOME ON THE
LEFT AND THE PROPERTY ON THE
RIGHT AND THAT IS WHERE THE NEW
HOME WILL BE CONSTRUCTED IS
BEING PROPOSED BE CONSTRUCTED
IN THE DRIVEWAY AS YOU CAN SEE
THE SUBMITTED PROJECTED SITE
PLAN SHOWING WHERE MY
DRIVE
COMING THROUGH BETWEEN THE TWO
MIDDLE OF THE HOMES AND THEN WE
KIND OF HORSESHOE AROUND TO THE
OTHER PROPERTIES THAT'S JUST
THE SUBJECT GARAGE JUST TO BE
DEMOLISHED AT THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY LOOKING AROUND THE
EXISTING PARKING LOTS BETWEEN
THE TWO PROPERTIES.
THIS IS THE REAR ELEVATION
OF THE EXISTING HOME AND THAT'S
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY TO THE
EAST AND THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY COLOR QUESTIONS THAT YOU
HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
SO I'M A LITTLE BIT CONFUSED.
ARE THEY PROPOSING TO SPLIT
THIS LOT INTO TWO?
NO.
SO CAN THEY HAVE TWO STRUCTURES
ON ONE LOT THAT LARGE?
>> YES, THEY CAN BECAUSE OUR
FORESE SO THEY CAN HAVE TWO IF
THE VARIANCE IS GRANTED THEY
CAN OK BECAUSE THEY CAN DO IT
TO BE CONSIDERED A DUPLEX OR
EVEN TWO ATTACHED.
WELL, THE TWO SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES IN OUR FORESE DISTRICT BE
TWO UNITS THEY CAN HAVE OK THEY
CAN HAVE UP TO FOUR AND THEN
THEY'D HAVE TO START PLAYING AT
FIVE BUT THEY CAN'T HAVE MORE
THAN THE ONE THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
HAVE SINGLE FAMILY BY.
RIGHT.
WHICH THEY HAVE BECAUSE THEY
DID NOT CONFORMING A LOT IN OUR
FORESE DISTRICT IF YOU HAVE A
FORMING LOT YOU CAN HAVE A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME AND SUBJECT
THE R ONE C DISTRICTS UP
STANDARDS BUT THAT'S WHY
THEY'RE HERE.
THEY NEED THE VARIANCE OF THE
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR
SQUARE FEET BECAUSE THEY DON'T
MEET THE LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
OK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS DAVE.
SO JOHN THE THEY'RE ASKING FOR
HIS SIDE YARD SETBACK VARIANCE
WHICH IS THAT SO YOU GO TO THE
PICTURE ON THE SIDE OF THE
HOUSE OF THE PARKING LOT.
I'LL JUST SHOW YOU RIGHT HERE
IF YOU SEE MIKE ON THE CURSOR
YOU SEE MY CURSOR?
YEAH.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED HOME.
CORRECT.
AND OUR FORESE DISTRICT FOR
MORE THAN ONE UNIT THIS WILL BE
TWO UNITS WILL REQUIRE A 12
FOOT SIDESTEP THAT THEY'RE
PROPOSING THAT FIVE FOOT SIDE
SET BACK OVER HERE SO THAT THEY
NEED THE SEVEN FOOT VARIANCE ON
THAT SIDE.
THEY'LL MEET THE AVERAGE FRONT
THAT BACK THEY'LL MEET THE WEST
SIDE UP BACK AND THEY'LL MEET
THE REAR SET THAT THEY'RE JUST
GOING TO NEED THE VARIANCE
OF THE SEVEN FEET FOR THAT SIDE
AND THEN THE LOT AREA VARIANCE
IN ORDER TO CONSTRUCT A SECOND
UNIT.
BUT BUT THE EXISTING HOUSE
WHICH THEY'RE NOT DOING
ANYTHING WITH THAT ONE WHERE
YOUR CURSOR IS RIGHT NOW.
YEP.
THAT'S ALREADY NONCONFORMING ON
THE SIDE YARD ON THAT WEST SIDE
.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THAT LOOKS LIKE IT'S CLOSER
TO THAT SIDE PLOT LINE THAN
WHAT THEY'RE PROPOSING WITH
THEIR NEW CONSTRUCTED.
YEAH.
SO IF THEY WERE JUST TO LEAVE
THIS HOME THAT WOULD HAVE TO BE
FIVE FEET FOR THE R-1 SITE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
BUT IT'S NOT PERFORMING BECAUSE
IT WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN TWENTY
MUCH PRIOR TO TODAY'S CODE .
SO IT'S A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE BUT THAT'S REALLY NOT
PART THE REQUEST BECAUSE IT'S
ALL ABOUT THIS NEW STRUCTURE
BEING ALLOWED TO BRING IN A
SECOND UNIT AND THEY NEED THAT
AREA VARIANCE TO ALLOW A SECOND
UNIT.
OK, THANK YOU.
YOU NEED UH UM SORRY YOU
ALREADY SAID THIS BUT HOW FAR
IS THE SIGN AND HOW FAR FROM
THE LINE IS THE HOUSE ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF THE PROPOSED NEW
BUILDING AND THE OTHER PURSELL
SO YOU'RE ASKING HOW FAR IS
THIS BUILDING?
>> NO, THE OTHER ONE ON THE
OTHER PERSON TO THE RIGHT TO
THE RIGHT THE NEIGHBORING
CASTLE.
YEAH, WOULD THIS BE EQUAL TO
WHAT EXISTING ON THE OTHER JUST
LOOKING AT IT, YOU KNOW, FROM
SURVEY STANDPOINT IT PROBABLY
IS ABOUT THE SAME MIGHT BE SIX
FEET.
IT'S IT LOOKS ABOUT THE SAME
OVER VERY, VERY SIMILAR AND THE
PURPOSE BEING SERVED BY THE
SETBACK THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
SEEK THE VARIANCE FOR IS NOT
SURE I UNDERSTAND LIKE WHAT IS
THE PURPOSE OF THE SITE?
>> YEAH, YOU GET A DRIVEWAY
THAT READS THAT THAT WOULD BE A
GOOD QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT
.
BUT IF THEY WERE TO SLIDE IT TO
THE WEST AND MEET THE TWELVE
FEET THEN IT WOULD IT WOULD
PROBABLY ELIMINATE THAT
DRIVEWAY BECAUSE THEY NEED A
MINIMUM OF TWELVE FEET.
>> I GUESS WHAT I WAS ASKING
WAS SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT WHICH IS
PLEASE REMIND ME WHAT THE
PURPOSE OF THE STANDARD IS.
SO FOR OUR FORESE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS IF
YOU HAVE TWO UNITS ABOVE THE
SET BACKS OR TWELVE FEET OF THE
SIDE BUT IF IT'S A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME IT'S REDUCED DOWN
TO OUR ONE C AND IT'S FIVE FEET
FOR NONCONFORMING LAND Y YEAH
IF YOU HAVE A NONCONFORMING LOT
SUCH AS THIS ONE YOU BY RIGHT
THE CITY ALLOWS YOU TO BUILD A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME EVEN IF IT'S
NOT FOR ME YOU JUST HAVE TO
MEET THEM.
THEY REDUCE THE SETBACKS DOWN.
THEY ARE ONE SEE DISTRICT
SETBACKS AND ALLOW YOU BY RIGHT
TO BUILD A SINGLE FAMILY HOME I
DON'T KNOW NOT FORMULA ANYONE
CAN DO THAT IF YOU HAVE A 2000
SQUARE FOOT LOT YOU CAN BUILD A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME ON IT IF YOU
MEET THE BACK AND IF YOU DON'T
THEN YOU'D HAVE TO COME TO ZIBA
FOR A VARIANCE AND THAT'S KIND
OF WHY THEY'RE HERE TONIGHT.
THIS THEY CAN IF THIS
IF THIS
LOT WAS EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET ABOVE EIGHTY FIVE
HUNDRED EIGHTY FIVE OH ONE NINE
THOUSAND THEY COULD DO THIS
PROJECT BY RIGHT IF THEY COULD
MEET THAT SIDE SETBACK BECAUSE
THEY'RE ALLOWED TO HAVE
MULTIPLE THEY'D BE ABLE TO HAVE
FOUR UNITS ON IT BEFORE THEY
HAVE TO SET ONE.
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS FOR JOHN I
GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION.
IT KIND OF GOES TO WHAT DARMA
IS GETTING AT.
WELL, THESE ZONING CODES IN THE
SETBACKS WERE ESTABLISHED AT A
TIME WHEN WE WEREN'T SO FOCUSED
ON INCREASING DENSITY IN THE
DOWNTOWN AREA AND WHICH IS A
DIRECTION THAT THE CITY IS
POLICYMAKERS HAVE GONE AWAY
FROM.
AND I GREW UP ON DEWEY STREET
AND THERE ARE THREE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF DEWEY.
NOT A SINGLE ONE OF THEM HAS 12
FOOT SETBACKS ON BOTH SIDES AND
THEY WERE BUILT IN THE 1960S.
I'M JUST WONDERING AND THOSE
ARE MULTIUNIT TWO OF THEM ARE
SIX UNIT AND ONE OF THEM IS
PROBABLY TWO UNIT.
WELL, HOW HOW DID THOSE GET
BUILT AT THAT TIME BECAUSE THE
CODE AND THESE REQUIREMENTS
WERE DEVELOPED PROBABLY AROUND
NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE.
SO THOSE HOMES WERE ALL PRE
EXISTING NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE
GOT YOU.
AND WITHOUT LOOKING AT IT
DEPENDS ON WHAT THEY WERE ZONED
SOME OF THEM MIGHT BE OUR ONE C
AND ONLY HAVE A FIVE FOOT SIDE
SET BACK.
SOME OF THEM COULD BE OUR ONE D
WITH A THREE FOOT WHETHER MULTI
OR MULTI FAMILY SO AND I DO
KNOW MY DAD ACTUALLY IN SO THAT
THERE ARE FOUR C AND BUT IT'S A
SINGLE GOT FOUR UNITS AND ONE
HOME AND THAT WOULD BE
NONCONFORMING BUT IT WAS
PROBABLY MOST LIKELY BUILT
PRIOR TO NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE
ALL THOSE HOMES THAT DO WE WERE
BUILT BEFORE 1960 THESE AREN'T
HOMES THERE BRICK APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
OH YOU COME UP WITH APARTMENT
AND THEY WERE BUILT IN THE
NINETEEN SIXTIES I MAY HAVE
BEEN IN JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL
WHICH MEANT THEY WERE BUILT
PROBABLY RIGHT AROUND NINETEEN
SIXTY FIVE AND MAYBE A LITTLE
BEFORE AND I JUST I DON'T SEE
THEM AS THERE'S THERE ARE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES ON EITHER
SIDE OF OF OF THESE ALTHOUGH
TWO OF THE APARTMENT BUILDINGS
ARE NEXT TO EACH OTHER AND I
DON'T SEE THEM AS REALLY HAVING
AS SUCH A HUGE NEGATIVE IMPACT
ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD BY NOT
HAVING A 12 FOOT SETBACK.
AND I'M JUST QUESTIONING THE
NEED FOR THAT 12 FOOT SETBACK,
ALTHOUGH IT IS PART OF OUR OK,
THAT'S MY ONLY QUESTION.
MANY OF THE QUESTIONS WHICH I
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE,
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME.
>> YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
SO THEY'RE ALL ONLINE AND I'VE
PROMOTED THEM ALL
.
MR. SMILEY, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
HUH?
AM I DOING THIS RIGHT RIGHT
THERE?
I'M PROMOTING THE LOWER HOUSE
TO TALK TO NO ONE TALKS WITH
THE QUITTING.
I'M IN A GOOD FRIEND BUT YOU
WAS MEETING THAT.
YES.
ASKED ON HE ASKED ME WHY I
SHOULD GO HERE.
IT WAS REALLY A DATE.
I MEAN UNLESS WE CAN CURE THIS
I ALREADY I'M I PREFER TO SEE
PETITIONERS BEFORE US IN PERSON
ADDRESS QUESTIONS THAT WE HAVE
AND IF THIS PERSON CAN'T APPEAR
I'M ALREADY I'M INCLINED TO SAY
LET'S TABLE IT BUT CERTAINLY IF
WE CAN'T HEAR HIM OR HE CAN'T
BE PROMOTED INTO OUR THING, I'D
SAY LET'S TABLE THIS UNTIL THE
NEXT MEETING AND WOULD MAKE
THAT PROPOSAL.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S GIVE IT ONE MINUTE
BECAUSE THERE THEY ARE IN THE
MEETING.
>> IT'S JUST A TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTY PROMOTING THEM NEED
TO GO MAYBE THEY SHOULD HAVE
BEEN HERE WITH BUT HELLO.
HELLO HELLO.
HI THIS IS MISS LAMPMAN MISS
MISALIGNMENT.
CAN YOU HEAR US?
YES OK I HAVE MR. SMILEY IS
RIGHT HERE WITH ME.
>> OK GREAT.
ALL RIGHT IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
MAKE YOUR PRESENTATION.
OK, JANE SMILEY AND THE ONLY
PRESENTATION WAS THAT THE HOUSE
THAT'S THERE RIGHT NOW WAS THE
FIRST HOUSE ON THAT STREET AND
THE OWNER HAD THE TWO LOCKS BUT
HE JUST MIXED THEM TOGETHER.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE OLD OLD
OLD RECORDS YOU'LL SEE THERE'S
TWO AT BATS RIGHT THERE BACK IN
THE DAY WHICH WE DO HAVE PATIO
AND WE'RE JUST TRYING TO HELP
THE STUDENTS BUY AND BUILD
ANOTHER HOUSE RIGHT IN THERE
AND WE'VE BEEN DOING RENTAL
PROPERTY FOR A LONG TIME AND WE
FIGURED THAT WE COULD SQUEEZE
ONE IN THERE AND YOU KNOW, JUST
ADD ONE MORE TO THE HOUSING
STUFF.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO
DO.
AND IF WE'RE ONLY MISSING A
COUPLE OF FEET ON ONE SIDE, I
THINK IT'D BE A NICE ADDITION
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD AT THAT I
THINK YOU ARE THERE QUESTIONS
FOR THE PETITIONER ADVANTAGE
MR. WHERE CAN YOU HEAR US?
HMM?
YES, I CAN.
HI.
>> HELLO.
GO AHEAD.
WE CAN HEAR YOU GREAT.
>> YOU KNOW I DON'T HAVE TOO
MUCH TO ADD BEYOND WHAT JIM
SMILEY HERE WHO CAME TO ME
WANTING TO DEVELOP A HOUSE ON
THAT PARCEL AND IT IS VERY
CONSISTENT WHAT WE PROPOSE IS
VERY CONSISTENT WITH WHAT IS
ALREADY EXISTING ON THE STREET
.
AND YOU MENTIONED THAT SITE
THAT THAT CAME INTO QUESTION.
WE WERE MATCHING THAT SITE
FATBACK OF THE ADJACENT OF THE
ADJACENT HOUSE FOR ABOUT FIVE
FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONERS, CHRISTINA?
SO WAS AN EVALUATION OR COULD
YOU EXPLAIN HOW THAT THE
PROPOSED BUILDING WAS SITED?
MEANING THAT WE EARLIER IN THE
DISCUSSION WE WERE WONDERING IF
THE WIDTH FOR A DRIVEWAY WAS
THE WAS THE BASELINE FOR
LOCATING THE BUILDING EAST WEST
?
WHAT WAS THE DRIVER DECISION
THERE?
IT WAS THE DRIVEWAY AND JIM,
I'VE GOT SOMETHING TO ADD BUT
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE THAT WAS
PROVIDING ADEQUATE SPACE FOR
DRIVEWAY ON THAT SIDE OF THE
LOT AND THEN THE FIVE FEET AND
YOU KNOW, YOU GET TO A POINT
WHERE THE THE BUILDING NO
LONGER HAS VIABLE LIVABLE
WIDTH.
SO YEAH, THAT'S WHAT WE WERE
AFTER THOUGH THE FIVE FEET ON
THE ONE SIDE THAT MATCHED THE
ADJACENT AND THEN DRIVEWAY ON
THE OTHER.
OK, THANK YOU DAVE.
SO YEAH IF I COULDN'T THIS NEW
BUILDING JUST BE MOVED OVER TO
THE MIDDLE THERE BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT REALLY THERE ONE
PARCEL RIGHT.
SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO CONSIDER
THE SETBACK BETWEEN THE TWO
BUILDINGS ON THIS SINGLE PARCEL
SO IT COULD ALMOST BE LIKE A
DUPLEX AND ATTACHED DUPLEX
ALMOST OR YOU COULD HAVE SPACE
BETWEEN THEM AND THEN HAVE THE
DRIVEWAY IN THAT AREA TO THE
EAST AND MEET THE SETBACK
REQUIREMENTS
I GUESS I'M NOT
SURE THERE'S SPACE IN THERE TO
DO THAT.
PERHAPS THERE IS.
YEAH, WE WERE TRYING TO PROVIDE
DRIVEWAY ON THAT ON THAT PARCEL
THAT GOT US TO THE TO THE BACK
THE BACK PART OF THE LOT
.
I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
STAN.
MR. JOHN, ISN'T THIS CONSIDERED
ONE PARCEL AT THIS POINT?
YES.
SO THERE IS NO WORRY ABOUT ANY
SETBACK OR ANYTHING AT THAT THE
FICTIONAL MIDDLE LINE WHICH YOU
WANT ONE TIME WAS THE DIVIDING
LINE BETWEEN TWO LOTS BECAUSE
THAT DOESN'T EXIST ANYMORE.
IS THAT THE CASE?
YES, SO I'M JUST NOT
UNDERSTANDING WHY BECAUSE THE
DRIVEWAY CAN BE IN A SETBACK.
WHY WHY NOT JUST PUT THE
DRIVEWAY ON THAT EAST SIDE
OF THE BUILDING AND SLIDE THE
BUILDING OVER AND THEN YOU
WOULDN'T NEED THAT VARIANCE
MISALIGNMENT BECAUSE YOU HEAR
THE QUESTION MR. SMILEY
, WHY IS
IT OVER?
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A NEW CURB
CUTS AND I DON'T WANT TO GO SO
WE'RE JUST MAKING IT EASY AS
POSSIBLE BY LEAVING THE CURB
CUT.
THEY'RE SWEEPING THROUGH.
THEY'RE PARKING OUR CARS AND
BACK AND YOU KNOW NOT THEY HAVE
THE WHOLE THING FLIPPED OVER
LIKE THAT.
I THINK WHAT HE'S SAYING, DAVE,
IS THERE'S THAT EXISTING
HAIRCUT THAT'S EXISTING IN THE
CENTER GOT HERE THEY'D HAVE TO
RELOCATE THE OTHER THE EAST
SIDE OF THE LOT ANY
OF QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
THE OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW IF YOU'RE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE OR USE A RAISED
HAND FEATURE.
THERE'S NO OTHER CALLERS AT
THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
WITHOUT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
,JULIE.
SO WHEN I FIRST READ THIS
WITHOUT SEEING THE PROPERTY IT
WAS IT WASN'T QUITE SURE WHAT
WAS WHAT THE PURPOSE WAS.
BUT WHEN YOU WALK AROUND THERE
I THINK THIS PROPOSAL THIS
HOUSE WILL GO IN AND IN TWO
YEARS NOBODY WILL KNOW THAT
IT'S THAT IT WAS A NEW HOUSE
THAT IT WAS BUILT HERE BECAUSE
IF YOU WALK AROUND I MEAN MANY
OF THE HOUSES HAVE SMALL
SETBACKS.
THERE'S LOTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES
OF HOUSING IN THAT AREA.
>> AND I JUST THINK IF IF THIS
IS THE EASIEST WAY AY AY AGREE
THAT YEAH YOU COULD PULL IT
OVER AND THEN IT WOULDN'T IT
WOULDN'T OBSTRUCT OR IT
WOULDN'T HAVE THE THE PROBLEMS
BUT I MEAN OUR POLICY ZONING
RIGHT NOW THE WAY WE HAVE IT
IT'S ASPIRATIONAL ANYWAY.
I MEAN IT WASN'T REALLY
IMPLEMENTED IN THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THE POINT WAS
SORT OF TO TAKE DOWN THESE
HOUSES AND PUT UP SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
SO THE FACT THAT WE'RE KEEPING
A HOUSE, ADDING A HOUSE, IT
WILL ACTUALLY LOOK BETTER.
IT WILL NOT JUST BE A DIRT
PARKING LOT VISIBLE FROM THE
STREET.
I I THINK I SEE NO PROBLEM IN
VOTING FOR THIS.
I THINK JUST ECHO WHAT THEY
WERE SAYING IN TERMS OF MAYBE
AN ESTHETIC THING TO HAVE THE
DRIVEWAY BETWEEN THE EXISTING
HOUSE AND THE NEW HOUSE WITH
ASKING FOR THAT SETBACK AS
OPPOSED TO HAVING BOTH HOUSES
NEXT TO EACH OTHER AS SOMEONE
THAT LIVES IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD, I AGREE WITH
JULIE THAT THERE ARE A LOT
OF THOSE THAT JUST AND I KNOW
DEBU TOO.
SO IT'S USED TO THAT.
BUT I THINK IF YOU SHIFTED IT
OVER IT WOULD HAVE NOT
NECESSARILY THE SAME VIEW FROM
THE STREET HAVING TWO HOUSES
AND THEN A DRIVEWAY BETWEEN
THEM AS OPPOSED TO JUST
GRANTING THAT.
AND SO I THINK I'M CERTAINLY IN
SUPPORT OF THE ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION READY FOR PROMOTION
I COULD MAKE A MOTION.
THANK YOU IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING BOARD,
APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS FIFTEEN
HUNDRED SEVENTY FOUR SQUARE
FOOT AREA VARIANCE AND A SEVEN
FOOT REQUIRED SIDE YARD SETBACK
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH THREE MULTIPLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
THE VARIANCE AS WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW TWO
STOREY SIX BEDROOM SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENCE.
THE BUILDING IS TO BE
CONSTRUCTED PER SUBMITTED PLANS
.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU JULIE.
YES, MIKE.
>> YES DAVE.
DAVE YES.
>> CHRISTINA YES.
TRUE YES.
>> I ALSO VOTE YES.
YES DHARMA YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY FOUR
DASH ZERO ZERO THREE SIX TO
EIGHT WON DELAWARE DRIVE JUMP
ALL RIGHT ADRIAN FAZEKAS I HOPE
I PRONOUNCE THAT RIGHT
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A SECOND STORY
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTS.
THE SECOND FLOOR WILL CONTAIN A
NEW BEDROOM AND BATHROOM.
THE RESIDENCE IS NOT CONFORMING
FOR THE AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
ALONG DELAWARE DRIVE THE
PROPERTY ZONED R ONE C SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF DELAWARE DRIVE
AND WEST OF S.
S SEVENTH STREET AND THE DICKIN
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
SIXTY NINE AND IS APPROXIMATELY
TWO THOUSAND THIRTY TWO SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS NOT
CONFORMING AS IT IS LOCATED
TWENTY FOUR POINT TWO FEET FROM
THE FRONT LINE AND THE AVERAGE
FRONT SET BACK IS TWENTY EIGHT.
THE THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING A
NEW SECOND STORY ADDITION THAT
WILL CONTAIN A NEW BEDROOM AND
BATHROOM ABOVE THE EXISTING
GARAGE AND FAMILY ROOM AREA.
THE PROPOSED SECOND STORY
ADDITION WILL NOT ENCROACH
FURTHER TO THE FRONT OR SIDE
SET BACKS AND THE FOOTPRINT
WILL REMAIN ON UNCHANGED.
IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST LOCATION MAP AND THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY HIGHLIGHTED IN
THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN JUST
WEST OF S SEVENTH STREET IN THE
SOUTH SIDE OF DELAWARE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA MAP
SHOWING THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
AND SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND AS YOU CAN TELL BY
THAT GABLED ROOF, THE PROPOSED
ADDITION HAS TO GO OVER THE
GARAGE RIGHT HERE ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE STRUCTURE.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE BOUNDARY
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH
THE SUBJECT OR THE APPLICATION
.
>> THESE ARE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONS GOING OVER THE
EXISTING GARAGE AND THIS IS THE
LOFT ELEVATION OR THE EASTERN
SIDE OF THE GARAGE OR THE HOUSE
SHOWING THE NEW PROPOSED
ADDITION OVER THE GARAGE GARAGE
SIDE DOOR LOOKING AT IT FROM
THE OTHER PERSPECTIVE, THE
PROPERTY YOU SEE KIND OF THE
ADDITION IN ITS RELATIONSHIP TO
THE CURRENT ROOF ROOFLINE AND
THIS IS WHAT THE PROPOSED
ADDITIONAL LOOK LIKE FROM THE
REAR ELEVATION OF THE PROPERTY
.
THIS WAS A FOUNDATION PLAN
SUBMITTED.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING FOUNDATION
FOR THE GARAGE AND FAMILY ROOM
AND THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN FOR
THE FAMILY ROOM AND THE TWO CAR
GARAGE THAT ARE EXISTING AND
THEN THE SECOND FLOOR PLAN WITH
THE NEW MASTER BEDROOM BATHROOM
AND A WALK IN CLOSET AND PART
OF A LAUNDRY ROOM AND THIS IS
JUST A CROSS SECTION SHOWING
THE GARAGE AND RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE MASTER BEDROOM ABOVE.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT MY INSPECTION OF THE
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE WHERE THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS OVER THE
GARAGE WILL BE LOCATED.
THIS IS A RELATIONSHIP TO THE
HOUSE DIRECTLY TO THE EAST.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THE TWO ARE
DIRECTLY RELATED TO ONE ANOTHER
AND LOOKING DOWN THE STREET TO
THE WEST AND THE OTHER
NEIGHBORHOOD NEIGHBORS AND
THAT'S THE NEIGHBOR DIRECTLY TO
THE WEST AND THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
AT THIS TIME.
>> THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
I'M JUST CURIOUS ARE THERE MANY
HOMES IN THAT STRETCH THAT ARE
NONCONFORMING BECAUSE OF THE
SETBACK OR IS JUST THERE
THEY'RE ALL PRETTY MUCH IN A
ROW THE SAME LINE OF SIGHT.
THIS ONE'S JUST SLIGHTLY AHEAD
.
BUT YOU KNOW, IT'S HARD TO TELL
DISCERN JUST IF YOU WERE
DRIVING DOWN THE ROAD IT'S NOT
DISCERNIBLE.
YOU KNOW, INTERESTING.
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S LESS THAN
FOUR FEET SO EXPECT ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR JOHN, RIGHT.
>> IF THE PETITIONERS HERE IF
YOU CAN COME FORWARD, PLEASE
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD.
>> YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES,
SIR.
I'M JEFF SNYDER AND THE
HOMEOWNER.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US HERE.
IT'S PRETTY COOL MY FIRST TIME
DOING THIS WHEN I PICKED A BAD
SEED BECAUSE MY FAMILY IS
TAKING PICTURES OF ME LIKE ON
TV BUT MY THREE YEAR OLD HAYDEN
WAS EXCITED SO HI HAYDEN.
BUT BUT YEAH LIKE LIKE KIND
OF JOHN IS SAYING IT'S I THINK
IT'S PRETTY STANDARD.
I ACTUALLY TALKED TO OUR
NEIGHBOR ABOUT IT.
THEY'VE BEEN IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SINCE NINETEEN
SIXTY NINE THAT THEY ACTUALLY
SAID ONE OF OUR HOUSE WAS LIKE
ONE OF THE MODEL HOMES THEY'RE
LIKE THE FIRST FIVE THERE SO I
WAS THIS WAS NEWS TO ME THAT
WAS NONCONFORMING AND
ESSENTIALLY WHERE I'VE LIVED
THERE FOR OVER TEN YEARS WITH
MY FAMILY WE'RE ACTUALLY
EXPECTING ANOTHER GIRL BABY
GIRL IN DECEMBER SO THAT'S KIND
OF THE IMPETUS FOR WANTING TO
EXPAND A LITTLE BIT.
WE LOVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD, DON'T
WANT TO MOVE.
SO YEAH, WE WERE JUST LOOKING
TO TO ADD THAT ABOVE THE GARAGE
I GUESS THAT WOULDN'T CHANGE
THE EXISTING FOOTPRINT JUST
HOPEFULLY ALLOWS US TO STAY IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND CONTINUE
TO GROW AS A FAMILY.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I APPRECIATE.
THANK YOU.
OH GO AHEAD.
MY NAME'S ADRIAN FAZEKAS.
I'M THE BUILDER.
I WORK WITH THE JEFF AND BLAIR
SNYDER JUST ECHO WHAT HE WAS
SAYING.
YEAH, WE WANT TO MAINTAIN THE
SAME FOOTPRINT.
WE'RE JUST GOING UP AND WE'RE
ADDING LIKE OWNER SWEET BEDROOM
AND BATHROOM IN A CLOSET SO I
THINK IT WILL BE IN HARMONY
WITH THE AREA AND I DON'T SEE
ANY ADVERSE IMPACT ON THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER'S?
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD NOW OR YOU'RE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RACIN BUTTON
.
THERE ARE NO CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN, THAT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WELL, I LIVE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ADJACENT TO THIS
ONE IN DICKIN AND MY HOUSE WAS
BUILT ABOUT A DECADE BEFORE BUT
VERY SIMILAR IN SIZE TYPE WELL
TYPOLOGY AND I CAN ATTEST TO
THE FACT THAT LIKE ALMOST ALL
OF THE HOUSES THAT ARE LIKE
THIS AND MY NEIGHBORHOOD DO THE
ADD ON THE TOP OF THE GARAGE I
RUN THROUGH THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
ALL THE TIME SO I WOULD AGREE
IT'S IN HARMONY WITH EVERYTHING
ELSE THAT'S THERE AND THIS BODY
DOESN'T TEND TO VOTE DOWN
THINGS THAT ARE JUST WITHIN THE
SAME BOUNDS OF NON CONFORMING.
>> SO ANYWAY, ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION READY FOR MOTION
DAY?
I'LL BE HAPPY TO MAKE A MOTION.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS BUT
AND I REFRAINED FROM ASKING THE
HOMEOWNER THE HEY WHILE YOU'RE
DOING THIS MAYBE ADD A FRONT
PORCH SO YOU COULD SIT OUT
THERE AND WATCH YOUR NEIGHBORS
GOING BY.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'M DEFINITELY IN
FAVOR OF WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
ZEBA TWENTY FOUR GASHI ONE ZERO
THREE SIX TWENTY TWO EIGHTY ONE
DELAWARE DRIVE ALTERATION TO A
NONPERFORMANCE STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A SECOND STORY
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTS, THE
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTS IS
TWENTY FOUR POINT TWO FEET FROM
THE FRONT LINE IN THE AVERAGE
SET BACK IS TWENTY EIGHT FEET.
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL NOT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE FRONT
SET BACK THE ADDITION AS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
DO YOU HAVE SUPPORT DUE TO THE
WORK?
THANK YOU EVERYBODY IS A GREAT
CHRISTINA.
YES.
DRIVEN YES I ALSO VOTE YES TUD
YES DARMA YES JULIE YES MIKE
YES DAVE YES THE REQUEST IS
GRANTED MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS WE HAVE NONE NEW
BUSINESS COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL DHARMA WHAT YOU SO WE
MADE SOME ADJUSTMENTS TO ATC
ONE ZONING CATEGORY AND I THINK
THAT MOST OF THESE CHANGES
SHOULD BE FAMILIAR TO THIS
BODY.
IF YOU REMEMBER WE HAD A
VARIANCE REQUEST THAT CAME
BEFORE US.
I THINK EVEN WHEN THIS IS THE
SOUTH HARBOR HARBOR HERSELF
ANYWAY EISENHOWER THE STATE
PROJECT AND WHEN THEY CAME
BEFORE US WITH AH VARIANCE
REQUESTS THEY KIND OF GAVE US A
HEADS UP THAT THIS WAS ALSO
MOVING THROUGH THE ORDINANCE
REVIEW PROCESS.
SO IT WAS NO IT WAS BEFORE
COUNCIL FOR THE SECOND READING
TWO MEETINGS AGO AND IT IS
DEALS WITH CHANGES TO THE
BUILDING SIZE.
IT ADDRESSES SOME CURB CUT
LIMITS THAT I DON'T THINK THAT
THEY UNDERSTOOD WHAT THE
IMPLICATIONS WOULD BE FOR A
VERY, VERY LARGE PARCELS LIKE
THIS ONE IS SIXTY SIXTY ACRES
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
I CAN'T BE SIXTY ACRES ANYWAY
VERY LARGE PARCEL ASSEMBLAGES
AND THEN ALSO FRONTAGE
REQUIREMENTS AND ACTIVATION
OF PARKING STRUCTURES ON THE
FIRST FLOOR ON THE NON CORRIDOR
SIDE OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE.
SO THOSE ARE ALL TWEAKS THAT
WE'VE MADE.
THESE ARE NOT THE FIRST TWEAKS
THAT WE'VE MADE.
TAKE ONE THEY WON'T I'M SURE
THEY WON'T BE THE LAST BECAUSE
IT'S NEW AND WE WANT TO SEE
DEVELOPMENT HAPPEN IN THESE
AREAS THAT'S THANKS DRAMA
COMMUNICATION I WILL SAY I
FORGOT TO MENTION BACK ON OUR
FIRST PETITION WE DID RECEIVE A
LETTER FROM ALEKSA, A RESIDENT
AT THREE SEVEN THOMPSON NO
COMMENTS NECESSARILY REGARDING
THE SIGNAGE OR THE VARIANCES
THAT WERE BEING REQUESTED MORE
RELATED TO NOISE AND
SOUNDPROOFING OF THE BUSINESS
SO THAT HAS BEEN RECEIVED
PUBLIC COMMENT IF THERE IS
ANYONE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK TO
THE ZIBA ON ANY ITEM, NOW'S
YOUR CHANCE.
PLEASE COME FORWARD OR IF
ACCESSING REMOTELY PRESS
STARLINER RAISE YOUR HAND THERE
ARE NO CALLS AT THIS TIME SO I
WILL HAVE SOMETHING TO ADD.
OH PLEASE DO.
JUST LET EVERYONE KNOW THAT THE
REQUESTED ALTERATION TO A NON
PERFORMANCE STRUCTURE TEXT
AMENDMENT I BROUGHT THAT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THEY
GAVE ME THEIR FEEDBACK AND I AM
IN THE PROCESS OF MAKING SOME
ADDRESSING SOME CHANGES THAT
WERE REQUESTED AND HOPEFULLY
GOES BACK BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE FIRST WEEK
OF DECEMBER I BELIEVE DECEMBER
3RD AND THEN IT WOULD BE READY
FOR COUNCIL JANUARY.
RIGHT.
THANKS, JOHN WITH TO HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
YES.
TAD, THANK YOU.
SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM DAVE ALL
IN FAVOR.
>> SAY HI OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYONE.
FOR LETTER